#Siliguri:
Siliguri, pronounced [ˈʃiliɡuɽi] ( listen)) is a major tier-II city in West Bengal.
It forms "Twin Cities" with the neighbouring district capital of Jalpaiguri.
The city spans areas of the Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts in the Indian
state of West Bengal. Known as the "Gateway of Northeast India",
Siliguri is popular for three Ts: tea, timber and tourism.
It is located on the
banks of the Mahananda River and the Teesta River at the foothills of the
Himalayas. Siliguri is the third largest urban agglomeration in West
Bengal, after Kolkata and Asansol.
Siliguri has great strategic importance in West Bengal, with convenient
access to four international borders: China, Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan. It
also connects the North-East with mainland India. Located at the foothills of
Eastern Himalayas, Siliguri is a significant trading and transportation hub.

#History:

Middle Ages history:
According to Sailen Debnath, "Siliguri"
means a stack of pebbles or stones. Until
the 19th century this region was called as
"Shilchaguri" when there was dense
Dolka forest covering the region. Siliguri
was a small agricultural village in the
Kingdom of Sikkim. It was captured by
the Kingdom of Nepal in 1788, after
which Kirati and Nepali Lepchas came
to settle in this region.[18]
At that time a river port on Mahananda,
South of Siliguri in Phansidewa had an
important role in having trade bond with
Malda, Bengal and Bihar. This riverine
trade line was thus used by the
Bhutanese and Sikkimese to bring goods
into their mainland.
Modern history:
Siliguri started as a small area in the
northern part of city, on the front of
Mahananda River, which is now
Dagapur. The Treaty of Sugauli in 1815,
signed between Britain-Nepal, changed
the prospects of Siliguri, and it became a
point of transit for the Darjeeling hills
and Nepal mainland. From 1815
onwards, Siliguri started growing rapidly
as a small city due to its strategic location in trade routes. In 1865, the British
captured Darjeeling and the entire Dooars region to build tea plantations and
export the produce to England. To scale up exportation they introduced the
Siliguri Town railway station which stands to this day, and introduced the
Toy train from the station to Darjeeling in 1880. This helped Siliguri gain
sub-divisional town status in 1907.The "Siliguri Corridor" was formed
when Bengal was divided into West
Bengal and East Pakistan (later
Bangladesh) in 1947, with Sikkim later
merging with India in 1975.[20] At this
point many immigrants came to settle
here for better infrastructure, which led
to an increased population. Later in 1950
Siliguri achieved municipal status.
Keeping in mind the importance of
Siliguri, in 1951, the Assam rail link was
established with newly made (1949) Meter gauge Siliguri Junction railway
station. After few years in 1961 all these stations were connected with broad
gauge New Jalpaiguri Junction railway station which later became the most
important railway station in Northeast India.
Due to tremendous growth, Siliguri is now far away from its past outlook,
becoming the largest and fastest growing city in eastern India after Guwahati.
The growth rate of Siliguri was 57.8% during 1971- 1981. Considering this
growth, Siliguri came under the Integrated Urban Development Project
program in 1981. Siliguri population growth rate rose to 46.8% of 1981–
1991. A treaty between India and China for trade through Nathu La Pass, has
expedited development and prospects of Siliguri as an international
transportation and logistics hub. Later in 1994 Siliguri built a Municipal
corporation which has been responsible for the civic infrastructure and
administration of the city of Siliguri. Siliguri has now achieved the status of
becoming the 3rd largest city in West Bengal, after Kolkata and Asansol.
#Geography:
Location:
Siliguri is located at the foothills of the eastern Himalayas at a location of
26.71°N 88.43°E. The city is spread over an area of 260 km2 within the
Siliguri Corridor, also known as the Chicken's neck. The city is surrounded
by dense forests towards north and lifeline of Siliguri, Mahananda River
flows through the city thereby bisecting it into two halves. Teesta river is not
far from the city. Siliguri has an average elevation of 122 metres (400
feet).As Siliguri is located in the Terai region, the soil is sandy in nature
with the ratio of sand and silt much higher than clay. This region is very
prone to earthquake as there are several fault lines nearby.The Siliguri subdivision is surrounded by Himalayan ranges towards north and
towards south by the country Bangladesh, Uttar Dinajpur district of West
Bengal and the Indian state of Bihar. On the east lies Jalpaiguri district and
Kalimpong district and bounded on the west by the country of Nepal, thus
strategically so important.
Climate:
Siliguri falls under the humid subtropical climate (Cwa), when using the
Köppen climate classification. Warm summers, cooler winters and a severe
monsoon defines Siliguri's climate.
Temperature:
The average annual temperature in Siliguri is 23.2 °C. In summer, the
temperature varies from a minimum of 18-22 °C to a maximum of 28-
32 °C.
[30] The temperature of the hottest month, August, is 27.1 °C. The
temperature in summer sometimes exceeds 35 °C. On the other
hand, the winter maximum temperature hovers around 20-25 °C, and the
minimum drops 6-9 °C. January is the coldest month with an average
temperature of 16.4 °C. The minimum temperature in winter season
sometimes drops 5 °C or below. The highest temperature ever
recorded in Siliguri is 41.9 °C, recorded on 7 June 2023,[39] while the lowest
was recorded on 8 January 2018, when the mercury plummeted to
1.9 °C.Rainfall and other conditions On an average, Siliguri gets 3340 mm per year.Winters are mostly dry,
with the summers being rainy. About 80% of the annual rainfall is felt
between June and September, this period is known as monsoons or rainy
season in the season cycle. Heavy showers are often felt in May, June,July,August and September. July is the wettest month (804 mm) and
January is the driest month (12 mm). The average rainy days in July is 27 and
for December and January it is 1. Humidity is high throughout the year.
#Demographics:
Based on the Census data of 2011, the population of Siliguri UA/Metropolitan
(including Siliguri municipal corporation and Dabagram municipality) is 701,489,
while the population in the Municipal corporation area is 5,13,264.[3][15][53] Males
constitute 51.44% of the population and females 48.55%. Population shares of
Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe category persons in Siliguri municipal area are
8.84% and 1.25% respectively. The literacy rate in Siliguri is 77.64%.There are
154 notified and 31 non-notified slums in Siliguri, where 32% of Siliguri's population
lives.
Bengali is the official language in Siliguri subdivision, including Siliguri city.
In the municipal corporation at the time of the 2011 census, 60.88% of the population spoke Bengali, 25.24% Hindi, 4.66%
Nepali, 2.39% Bhojpuri, 1.58% Marwari and 1.24% Urdu as their first language.
Bengalis form the majority linguistic group in the city, followed by Biharis, Marwaris, Punjabis, Nepalis, Odias, and Tribals.
According to a 2001 thesis, Bengali speakers had a percentage of 64.25% out of the total population. Of the 30 wards in
2001, their population ranged from 11.71% to 98.96%.
#Religion:
The most commonly followed religion in Siliguri is Hinduism, with Islam being the
largest minority religion, followed by small percentage of adherents of Christianity and
Buddhism.
#Governance and politics:
Civic administration:
Siliguri saw rapid urbanisation under the British rule and that was reflected in its local
governance as well. The earliest form of local urban governance was a Sanitation
Committee set up in 1915.
Its function was to dispose off night soil. Till 1921, most
aspects of local governance in Darjeeling district, including Siliguri, was looked after by
the Darjeeling Improvement Fund. In 1922, Siliguri Local Board with nominated
members was created under the Bengal Local Self Government Act, 1885. In 1938, the
Union Board was set up in Siliguri under the Bengal Village Self-Government Act, 1919
and it provided public utilities in the city.
The Municipal Council was set up in 1949 under the Bengal Municipal Act of 1932 with
8 wards.The first chairperson of the municipality was the Sub Divisional Officer, and
the local councilors, called 'commissioners' in the then municipal act in effect, were
nominated by the state government. After the amendment of the act in 1956, 3/4 of the
local representatives were elected, while the remaining nominated by the Deputy
Commissioner. The first elected chairperson of Siliguri was Jagdish
Chandra Bhattacharya.
In 1994, the municipal council was upgraded to the Siliguri Municipal
Corporation with 47 wards.
It had five departments then: General
Administration, Collection, License, Public Works and Sanitation and
Public Health. The corporation now has 23 departments.It has 47 wards, of which 14 wards are in Jalpaiguri district, while the remaining
33 wards are in Darjeeling district.The last municipal elections was in 2015, when Communist Party of India (Marxist) won 23 seats, All India Trinamool Congress won 17 seats, Indian National
Congress won 5 seats, Bharatiya Janata Party won 2 seats, while an independent candidate won 1 seat. The mayor of
Siliguri for the 5-year term of 2015-20 was Ashok Bhattacharya from CPIM, who was later elected as the local Member of
Legislative Assembly as well.
The term of the last elected body of Siliguri Municipal Corporation ended on 7 May, 2,020 but municipal elections could not
be held because of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Board of Administrators was established with the outgoing mayor, Ashok
Bhattacharya, as the chairperson. This board will take care of the civic utilities of the city till the new municipal body is
elected. This follows the establishment of similar boards first in state capital Kolkata and then the rest of the state.
Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha constituency:
Siliguri is part of the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency. The last elections for the Lok Sabha took place in 2019, when Raju
Bista from Bharatiya Janta Party won the seat.The last elections to the West Bengal Vidhan Sabha took place in 2021.
The Member of Legislative Assembly representing Siliguri Vidhan Sabha Constituency is Sankar Ghosh.
Civic services and infrastructure:
Building plans in Siliguri are approved by Siliguri Municipal corporation; for building up to 3 storeys including parking, the
Borough Offices give clearance, while for buildings with more than 3 storeys, the Building Department gives the
approval. The present City Development Plan 2041 for Siliguri was developed in 2015 as part of the Capacity Building
for Urban Development project under the then Ministry of Urban Development by the private consultancy, CRISIL Risk and
Infrastructure Solutions Limited. Siliguri City comes under Siliguri Jalpaiguri Planning Area and the responsibility of
planning and development of the city lies with Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority.
Governance and politics
Civic administration
Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha constituency
Civic services and infrastructure
Orchid Sukna forest, Siliguri
Wild Indian elephant at Mahananda
Wildlife Sanctuary
The Public Health Engineering Department of the state government is responsible for developing and maintaining the
infrastructure for water supply, while the Water Supply department of the corporation provides new connections, supplies
water, and collects the user charges. The Conservancy Environment Department of the corporation provides Solid
Waste Management services in the city. Each ward in the city has its own Solid Waste Management committee that takes
care of cleanliness at the ward level. The Public Works Department of the corporation and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development
Authority are both responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads in Siliguri. Siliguri Jalpaiguri
Development Authority also prepared the Traffic & Transportation Master Plan 2030 and the Comprehensive Mobility Plan
for Siliguri Jalpaiguri Planning Area.
#Flora and fauna:
Flora:
Siliguri and surrounding the Sub-Himalayan
forests are rich in fauna diversity. The plains of
North Bengal (Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Cooch
Behar etc.) are surrounded by deep forests.
These forests are home of various rare and
common species of plants. The forest here is
moist Tropical and characterised by dense
growth of tall Sal (Shorea robusta). Sal
occupies about 80% of all vegetation in these
tropical forest.
These forests are categorised by their dominating plant species such as
1) East Himalayan Sal Forest, present on the lower slopes of Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary contains Sal, Khair, Simul,
Sissoo, Riverine grasslands and various rare species of plants like Orchids
2) East Himalayan Upper Bhabar Sal, mainly present at Jalpaiguri district which is characterised by a dense population of
Microstegium chiliatum, Sal . Others are Terminalia tomentosa, and Schima wallichii
3) Eastern Tarai Sal Forest, generally found in lower altitudes compared to other two types of forest. This type of forest
characterised by various species of bamboos, ferns, and Sal which is found in Baikunthapur Forest, near Siliguri city.
The rapid growth of the city has led to deforestation, making Siliguri warmer day by day and unbalancing the ecosystem
Fauna:
Siliguri is located in the Terai region ("moist land"), a belt of marshy grasslands and
dense tropical deciduous moist forests at the base of Himalaya range which is rich in
biodiversity, containing numerous rare species of flora and fauna. These forests are
characterised by their distinct wildlife variety. Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary near
Siliguri is famous for elephants. Sukna is the gateway to this sanctuary, which is
12 km from Siliguri.
These sub-Himalayan forests are the home of various types of wild animals like the
elephant, tiger, Indian bison, barking deer, wild pig, monkey, civet, snake, lizard,
mountain goat, sambar, chital and fishing cat. These forests are also home of about
243 different bird species like the pied hornbill, egret, kingfisher, drongo, fly catcher,
woodpecker and others. Another common sight is migratory water birds.
#Transport:
Road:
NH 27 crosses through the heart of the city which is now a part of the AH2 project. Siliguri is the origin of the century-old
Hill Cart Road that is NH 110, which connects Siliguri and Darjeeling
(77 km) dating from the British period. Siliguri also
is the origin of NH 10 which connects Gangtok,[79][80] and NH 12 which connects Pankhabari-Mirik. The highways NH
327, that connects Siliguri — Panitanki and NH 327B connecting Panitanki - Mechi Bridg, are also part of AH2. It connects
to adjacent countries through following routes:
Nepal: via Panitanki
Bangladesh: via Phulbari
China: via Nathula, Sikkim
Bhutan: via Jaigaon
Bus service:
Tenzing Norgay Bus Terminus: Tenzing Norgay Bus Terminus is the
main bus terminus serves as bus depot for both Government and private
bus service operated by NBSTC.
[81]
It connects to cities in Sikkim,
Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Meghalaya etc. and all other districts and cities
in West Bengal including Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Cooch
Behar,Alipurduar, Malda, Balurghat, Raiganj, Dalkhola, Berhampore,
Kolkata,Asansol, Suri etc.
Sikkim Nationalised Transport Bus Terminus: Sikkim Nationalised
Transport Bus Terminus (Siliguri) is located at the hillcart road in Siliguri.
This bus terminus is operated by the Sikkim Government. Buses
connecting towns and cities of Sikkim are mainly operated from here. This
bus terminus is one of the busiest and most important bus termini in the
Siliguri area. Sikkim Nationalised Transport Bus Terminus (Siliguri), which connects Sikkim.
P. C. Mittal Memorial Bus Terminus: P.C. Mittal Memorial Bus Terminus is a bus terminal located on Sevoke
Road, Siliguri, District Darjeeling. Both state owned North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC)
buses and private buses towards Dooars areas ply from here.
Rail:
Being a transportation hub,Siliguri is well connected through railway with almost all parts of the country. There are seven
stations that serve the city.
New Jalpaiguri Junction railway station
New Jalpaiguri Junction railway station, established in 1960[88]
(station code NJP)
is an A1 category broad gauge and
narrow gauge railway station under Katihar railway division of Northeast Frontier Railway zone. It is the biggest railway
station of Northeast India which serving the city Siliguri. This station is well connected to almost all parts of the country
except Goa. This station ranked 10th cleanest railway station in India in a 2016 survey and was among the top 100
booking stations of Indian railway. Many premium services are available, including 1 international Mitali Express,
Howrah–New Jalpaiguri Vande Bharat Express, New Jalpaiguri - Guwahati Vande Bharat Express, 4 Rajdhani Express, 2
Tourist Vistadome Express, 1 Shatabdi Express and 2 Humsafar Express.
Siliguri Junction
Siliguri Junction railway station (station code SGUJ) established in 1949[96] is another major broad gauge and narrow gauge railway station of Siliguri. Until 2011 it
was the only triple gauge (broad gauge, meter gauge and narrow gauge) railway
station in India.After 2011, the meter gauge was shut down, but the track remains
between Siliguri Junction railway station and Bagdogra railway station. Many
different cities in India are serviced from this station.[98]
Siliguri Town railway station
Siliguri Town railway station is one of the oldest railway station (station code SGUT) of the region, opened in
1880 for the Darjeeling ,Himalayan Railway (Toy train) connecting Siliguri and Darjeeling. Its importance
diminished with the construction of the Siliguri Junction railway station and New Jalpaiguri junction. Siliguri Town railway station is also a broad gauge and narrow gauge railway station, and is halting point for 8 trains only.
Bagdogra railway station
Bagdogra railway station (station code BORA) comes under greater Siliguri metropolitan area. It is 10 km from Siliguri
junction and is the third largest railway station after NJP and Siliguri Junction. This station serves Bagdogra and adjacent
areas. Bagdogra railway station is on the Siliguri-Aluabari broad gauge single line via Thakurganj. This station is the halting
point for 14 trains. 
Gulma railway station
Gulma railway station Railway (station code GLMA) is part of the Siliguri Urban area. It is 12 km from Siliguri City center
and serves Champasari Anchal and Gulma areas. Gulma railway station is on the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar-Samuktala Road
Line. This station is the halting point of 5 trains. Mainly passenger train halt at in this station.
Matigara Railway Station
Matigara Railway Station (station code MTRA)
is situated at Mathapari, West Bengal. Trains passing through this
station include MLFC - SGUJ DEMU and SGUJ- MLFC DEMU. This station has a single platform and two tracks; one
broad gauge line and one metre gauge line.
Rangapani railway station
Rangapani railway station (station code RNI) is part of the greater Siliguri metropolitan area. It is 14 km from Siliguri City
center and serves Rangapani and adjacent areas. Rangapani railway station is on the Howrah-New Jalpaiguri line. This station
is a halting point for 2 passenger trains.
Air:
Bagdogra International Airport is an international airport located towards the west of
Siliguri city, operated as a civil enclave at AFS Bagdogra of the Indian Air Force. This
airport is a major transport hub in the region, with flights to Kolkata, New Delhi,
Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Dibrugarh and has
international connectivity with Paro and Bangkok. The airport also has regular
helicopter services to Gangtok. Due to its location near Darjeeling hills and Sikkim,
Bagdogra international airport sees thousands of tourists annually.
Central government of India confirmed international airport status to this airport in
2002 with limited international operations.
[106][107] This is one of the few airports in
India with zero sales tax on aviation turbine fuel.

#Educational facilities:
University:
University of North Bengal, since 1962
Colleges:
General degree colleges
Acharya Prafulla Chandra Roy Government College
Siliguri College, Since 1950
Kalipada Ghosh Tarai Mahavidyalaya
Munshi Premchand Mahavidyalaya
North Bengal St. Xavier's College
Gyan Jyoti College
Siliguri College of Commerce
Siliguri Mahila Mahavidyalaya
Surya Sen Mahavidyalaya
Salesian College
Medical colleges
North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,
Since 1968
North Bengal Dental College and Hospital
Engineering colleges
Siliguri Government Polytechnic College
Siliguri Institute of Technology
Surendra Institute of Engineering & Management
Other Colleges
Inspiria Knowledge Campus
Schools:
English Medium Schools
Delhi Public School (CBSE)
Techno India Group Public School (CBSE)
Army Schools
Army Public School (Bengdubi & Khaprail)
Army Public School, Sukna
Kendriya Vidyalaya Sevoke Road
#Media:
Newspaper
English newspapers including The Telegraph,Times of India, The Statesman,The Economic
Times, and The Asian Age are widely circulated throughout the city. Several Bengali newspapers including
Uttarbanga Sambad, Anandabazar Patrika, Bartaman, Uttarer Saradin, Aajkaal, Pratidin,
and Ganashakti and Nepali Paper Himalaya Darpan (http://epaperhimalayadarpan.com/) are available.
The leading Hindi dailies Prabhat Khabar and Janpath Samachar are also published from
Siliguri.The online based news portals Siliguri Times, Khabar Arohan, Bong Siliguri Times,
CCN News, The Siliguri Journal, and Siliguri Barta, Times of North provide live updates regarding
Siliguri and adjacent areas.
Radio All India Radio Siliguri was commissioned in 1963 as an additional station ofAIR Kolkata.
It has two groups of transmitters: high power BEL HMB 140 (AM) -2 [2×100 kW] and medium range GCEL 136 (FM) -
2 [2×5 kW], for broadcasting programs.Prantik was the first program broadcast from here in 1969.
In the course of time many notable individuals like Hemanta Mukhopadhyay, Ustad Rashid Khan, Subhas
Mukhopadhyay, Shashi Kapoor, Manabendra Mukhopadhyay, Madhuri Chattopadhyay, and Priya Ranjan
Dasmunshi have visited AIR Siliguri. Popular programs executing from here are Pratyusha, Yuva
Anusthan, Grame Ganje, Mahila Majlis, Mananiyeshu, Sishumahal and Arogya.Two radio channels
are operated from AIR Siliguri through which programs are broadcasting daily:
#Television
Siliguri receives almost all television channels received by rest of the country.Apart from the national
terrestrial network Doordarshan,cable TV serves most of the houses.[144][145] Siliguri also
receives some Nepaliand Bangladeshi channels too. Siliguri has three local channels: CCN,
Amar Cable and HTV. There is a TV tower in Kurseong,about 25 km from Siliguri.
Sports facilities:
Siliguri hosts numerous sporting events and matches to influence and build develop young athletes from the city. Some of the
important sports enthusiast local clubs in Siliguri organise several cricket, football, volleyball, swimming competition, TT
matches etc. S.A.I or Sports Authority of India in Kanchenjunga Stadium conducts football and athletics. With the
provision for an international outdoor and indoor stadium, Siliguri has enough opportunities to host national level
matches. This has led Siliguri become a prominent city for national champions like Mantu Ghosh, the gold medalist
winner in the bi-annual South Asian Games (SAF) for table tennis, Ankita Das,Nandita Saha[152] and Soumyajit
Ghosh another internationally acclaimed table tennis player and Wriddhiman Saha – Indian international cricketer who
plays Test matches for Indian national team. Siliguri has done a tremendous job for Indian table tennis. Bikash
Ghosh Memorial Swimming Pool is beside Kanchanjunga Stadium in the city, and conducts swimming competitions. White
water rafting is done nearby in the Teesta river.
Kanchenjunga Stadium:
Kanchanjunga Stadium, a multipurpose stadium, is the
main stadium in Siliguri, and is primarily used for
football matches, although it has also hosted several cricket
matches. It has a capacity of 30,000[158] people at a time.
Recently this stadium is all set to get a facelift.
#Football:
This stadium hosted the Federation Cup 2012
matches of India. The first Federation Cup match played on this ground was between Mohun Bagan AC and
Churchill Brothers S.C. in 2012.
The final match of the 2013–14 Santosh Trophy was played at the stadium in March 2014.
Seven rounds of the 2015 I-League 2nd Division match were played on this ground.
It also hosted two Kolkata derby matches in 2016 I-league.
All the matches of 2016 SAFF Women's Championship were played in the Kanchenjunga Stadium.
Third I-League derby matches were held in this stadium ground in 2017.
#Cricket:
This stadium has hosted 11 Ranji Trophy matches. The first Ranji Trophy played on this ground was
between Bengal and Punjab in 2010.
Two Celebrity Cricket League matches were played here. The first Celebrity Cricket League played on this
ground was between the Veer Marathi vs Karnataka Bulldozers and Telugu Warriors vs Bengal Tigers in
2013.
Municipal corporation indoor stadium:
Indoor sports including table tennis, badminton, taekwon-do, lawn tennis and chess are played here. Siliguri is renowned for
being the training grounds of table tennis players. This stadium can hold 5000 people at a time. The Senior National Table
Tennis Championship was recently organised here. Sports festival, 2017 was also held in this indoor stadium.
Visitors' attractions:
Darjeeling Himalayan Railway toy train runs between
New Jalpaiguri, Siliguri and Darjeeling. It was built
between 1879 and 1881 and has been designated as a
UNESCO World Heritage Site.Coronation
Bridge, also known as Sevoke Bridge, is situated on lower
Himalaya about 20 km from Siliguri and was made in  This bridge spans across Teesta River. 
Gajoldoba view point is 28 km from Siliguri, famous for
the huge reservoir formed by Teesta Barrage . This
reservoir is home for many species of migratory birds,
including river lapwing, great crested grebe, Indian
cormorant, purple heron, Eurasian wigeon, common
shelduck, cotton teal, tufted duck, little ringed plover, and
great cormorant. Due to shuttling of migratory birds, the
Pakhibitan sanctuary was established here. A boating
facility is available. 
North Bengal Wild Animals Park, about 8 km (5.0 mi) away from the city, offers visitors the 'Bengal Safari' to experience subHimalayan wildlife closely, such as jungle fowl, sambar deer, royal bengal tiger, wild boars, spotted deer, wild bear, and
rhinoceros. It is fundamentally a part of the Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over an area of 700 acres. The park
conducts herbivore safaris, carnivore safaris, and elephant safaris. The Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary is located
13 km (8.1 mi) away from Siliguri on the foothills of the Himalayas, between Teesta and Mahananda.The sanctuary spans
over 159 km2
(61 sq mi) of reserve forest. In 1959, it received the status of a sanctuary mainly to protect the Indian bison and
royal bengal tiger. This sanctuary is home to rare mountain goat, chital, barking dear, fishing cat, sambar deer, tiger, elephant
and Indian bison and migratory birds. It offers mild to medium trekking challenges at some points. 
There are some important Hindu and Buddhists monuments in and around the city. Salugara Monastery is located 6 km
(3.7 mi) away from Siliguri. The main attraction is the 100 ft (30 m) stupa, which is believed to be founded by the Tibetan
Lama, Kalu Rinpoche.  This tranquil location for meditation was established by Tibetan monks and followers of Dalai
Lama.  Sed-Gyued monastery is located near Salugara monastery. It is a breathtaking monument which was destroyed by
the Chinese army, and then rebuilt. The monastery is home to more than 90 monks of the Gelukpa division, and is used as a
research centre.  Ewam India Buddhist Monastrey is 11 km (6.8 mi) from Siliguri and is placed in the lap of nature near
Bengal safari.  The ISKCON temple in the city, also known as Sri Sri Radha Madhav Sundar Mandir locally, is one of the
biggest Krishna centres in the North-Eastern region of India.  The Sevoke Kali temple is an ancient temple on the banks
of Teesta river close to the Coronation Bridge.This temple dedicated to Maa Kali, the Goddess of Destruction.[180]
Siliguri also offers amusement and water parks to tourists and locals. Dreamland Amusement Park, located near Fulbari,
12 km (7.5 mi) from Siliguri junction, is an agricultural land converted in a fun house. It has 5-6 usual rides and a mini
Ropeway. Savin Kingdom is an amusement and water park which is located near Dagapur in Siliguri. The water park has a
pool, slides, artificial wave, and rain dance. 
It also has various joy rides like adrenaline junkies, sky train, break dance,
go-carting, and artificial bullsas well as a multiplex, kids zone, and restaurant. 
The North Bengal Science Centre, established in 1997, is the only science centre in North Bengal. The main attractions are
the Digital Planetarium, Science Shows, 3D Theater, Taramandal Shows, science galleries and a green Science Park.[183][184]
The Hong Kong market is known as the Chandni Chowk of Northeast India, a street market with a variety of shops popping
out on the alleyways. 